Project:


Data Used:
This project uses two main data sets, the first is a set of reviews for
airline carriers pulled from Kaggle:
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/juhibhojani/airline-reviews/data and saved
in the file named 'Airline_review.csv'. The
second is a record of airline incidents and accidents pulled from the NTSB:
https://www.ntsb.gov/safety/Pages/research.aspx and saved in a file named
'AviationAccidentStatistics_2003-2022_20231228.xlsx'. Since the data from the
NTSB doesn't directly mention the air carrier involved with each incident
but the registration number, I had to run each registration number through
the FAA website at:
https://registry.faa.gov/aircraftinquiry/Search/NNumberInquiry. Since there
are hundreds of records to work with, I wrote up a script to run the
numbers through this site automatically and then wrote the results to a new
file that I named 'registration_info.pkl'.

Development Process:
The development began with a search for datasets. I was lucky to be able to
find a good data set for customer reviews of airlines but had more
difficulty finding a dataset for incidents for each commercial airline. The
closest I could find was a data set from the NTSB that contained records of
flight incidents and accidents from 2003 through 2022. Each record
contained the N-Number for the plane involved in the accident, but not the
airline specifically. Furthermore, the records weren't exclusive to
commercial airlines so those would have to be filtered out.

As it turns out, the faa website has a feature where you can input an
N-Number and get the registration data. To do this by hand would be too
tedious, so I wrote a webs craper to quickly and accurately get this
data. This process took much longer than I originally anticipated. This is
the first time that I've created a web scraper so it took some time to
learn how to even start. In the end, the battle became making sure the
scraper scraped the correct data. Since multiple records could be tied to
an N-Number it had to correctly determine which one, if any, was the one
active during the corresponding incident.

After finishing the web scraper, I discovered that I don't have nearly as
much data as I thought I had originally. The original data set of incidents
had nearly 27,000 records. However, after filtering out non-commercial
flights and flights that didn't have a findable owner, I only had 299
records! At this point, I decided to double check for more data sets in
this area online. To me, this seems to just be a testament to how safe air
travel is, at least commercially.
